Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Sreenivasan: AMERICANS
FLOCKED TO STORES TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF SALES AS THIS
YEAR'S SHORTENED HOLIDAY
SHOPPING SEASON KICKED OFF IN
EARNEST.
BUT SOME RETAILERS OPENING THEIR
DOORS ON THANKSGIVING HAS
SPARKED PROTESTS OVER THE
TREATMENT OF THOSE STOCKING THE
SHELVES AND MANNING THE
REGISTERS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M HARI
SREENIVASAN.
GWEN AND JUDY ARE OFF.
ALSO AHEAD ON THIS BLACK FRIDAY.
A DIFFERENT LOOK AT THE PLANET
EARTH.
WE TALK WITH THE SCIENTIST IN
CHARGE OF THE IMAGES FROM NASA'S
CASSINI SPACECRAFT ABOUT IT'S
ARRESTING SNAPSHOTS FROM SATURN.
>> AND OF COURSE THEY'VE BEEN
BEAUTIFUL.
IT'S BYE-BYE MY OBJECTIVE SINCE
DAY ONE TO MAKE THEM AS
BEAUTIFUL AS POSSIBLE, BECAUSE I
WANTED TO GIVE PEOPLE A SENSE OF
GOING ALONG FOR THE RIDE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND IT'S FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Sreenivasan: A SHOPPING
FRENZY DESCENDED ACROSS THE
COUNTRY TODAY, AS POST-
THANKSGIVING SHOPPERS LINED UP
FOR HOLIDAY SAVINGS.
IN SOME PLACES, THE MAD DASH FOR
DEALS TURNED VIOLE
SEVERAL SHOOTINGS AND FIGHTS
BREAKING OUT.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON "BLACK
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON "BLACK FRIDAY
RIGHT AFTER THIS NEWS SUMMARY.
INVESTORS ON WALL STREET KEPT A
CLOSE EYE ON "BLACK FRIDAY"
SHOPPING.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 11 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 16,086.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 15 POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 4,059.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED
MORE THAN 0.5%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 2%.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND THE FIRST
LADY VISITED PEOPLE WHO ARE
FASTING TO PROTEST CONGRESSIONAL
INACTION ON IMMIGRATION
LEGISLATION.
THEY STOPPED BY THE TENT ON THE
NATIONAL MALL WHERE THE
ACTIVISTS HAVE BEEN ON A HUNGER
STRIKE FOR THE PAST 18 DAYS.
THE PRESIDENT TOLD THEM HE
APPRECIATED THEIR EFFORTS.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER HAS
SO FAR REFUSED TO SCHEDULE VOTES
ON AN IMMIGRATION MEASURE THE
SENATE PASSED THIS SUMMER.
CHINA MOVED FOR THE FIRST TIME
TODAY TO ENFORCE ITS NEWLY
DECLARED AIR DEFENSE ZONE.
IT SCRAMBLED TWO OF ITS FIGHTER
PLANES TO INVESTIGA FLITEGHTS BY
A DOZEN AMERICAN AND JAPANESE
SURVEILLANCE PLANES.
THE NEW DEFENSE ZONE INCLUDES
AIRSPACE ABOVE A GROUP OF
UNINHABITED ISLANDS CLAIMED BY
JAPAN IN THE EAST CHINA SEA.
CHINA HAS DEMANDED THAT ALL
AIRCRAFT FLYING INTO THE AREA
NOTIFY THE CHINESE THEY ARE
COMING OR FACE MILITARY ACTION.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE TOOK TO THE
STREETS OF THE UKRAINIAN CAPITAL
TODAY.
THEY MASSED IN KIEV AFTER
PRESIDENT VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH A
LANDMARK TRADE DEAL WITH THE
EUROPEAN UNION IN FAVOR OF
CLOSER TIES WITH RUSSIA.
DEMONSTRATORS WAVED UKRAINIAN
AND E.U. FLAGS WHILE CALLING FOR
THE PRESIDENT'S RESIGNATION.
SOME ALSO FORMED A HUMAN CHAIN
IN SUPPORT OF EUROPEAN
INTEGRATION.
>> ( translated ): WE WANT TO
TELL THE WHOLE WORLD THAT
UKRAINIANS ARE A EUROPEAN
NATION, BECAUSE WE PROCLAIM AND
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE SUPPORT
ME, OUR VALUES, EDUCATION,
MEDICINE, AND CORRESPONDING
UKRAINIAN STANDARDS ARE GOOD FOR
US.
>> Sreenivasan: E.U. LEADERS
ATLYFL BLAMED RUSSIA FOR THE
DEAL'S DISINTEGRATION.
RUSSIA HAD WORKED TO DERAIL IT
BY THREATENING UKRAINE WITH
GIANT GAS BILLS AND TRADE
SANCTIONS.
PROTESTS ALSO RAGED FOR A SIXTH
DAY IN THAILAND.
SOME 1,200 ANTI-GOVERNMENT
DEMONSTRATORS SWARMED THAI ARMY
HEADQUARTERS IN BANGKOK,
APPEALING FOR HELP IN
OVERTHROWING THEIR PRIME
MINISTER.
A SEPARATE GROUP ALSO MARCHED ON
THE U.S. EMBASSY.
THAI PRIME MINISTER YINGLUCK
SHINAWATRA HAS PROPOSED A
DIALOGUE WITH MEMBERS OF THE
OPPOSITION.
BUT THEY'VE REJECTED THE OFFER.
NATO OFFICIALS IN AFGHANISTAN
HAVE LAUNCHED AN INVESTIGATION
INTO A DRONE STRIKE THAT KILLED
A CHILD AND WOUNDED TWO WOMEN.
THEY SAY YESTERDAY'S AIRSTRIKE
TARGETED AN INSURGENT IN HELMAND
PROVINCE.
THE COMMANDER OF U.S. AND
COALITION FORCES IN AFGHANISTAN
CALLED PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI TO
APOLOGIZE FOR THE CIVILIAN
DEATHS.
BUT KARZAI WARNED IF SUCH
ATTACKS CONTINUE, HE WILL NOT
SIGN A SECURITY DEAL WITH THE
U.S. TO ALLOW TROOPS TO STAY IN
THE COUNTRY BEYOND 2014.
A NEW REPORT FROM THE U.N. HIGH
COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES FOUND
SYRIAN REFUGEE CHILDREN ARE
OFTEN THE BREADWINNERS FOR THEIR
FAMILIES.
SINCE THE CIVIL WAR BEGAN MORE
THAN THREE YEARS AGO, AT LEAST
HALF THE REFUGEES WHO HAVE FLED
SYRIA ARE CHILDREN-- 1.1
MILLION.
MANY WORK LONG HOURS OF MANUAL
LABOR IN LEBANON AND JORDAN,
WHERE THEY ARE CHEAP LABOR.
THE 65-PAGE U.N. REPORT CALLED
FOR QUICK ACTION TO GET REFUGEE
CHILDREN BACK INTO SCHOOL.
>> Sreenivasan: STILL AHEAD ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": THE BOTTOM LINE
AND HUMAN TOLL OF THE HOLIDAY
SHOPPING SEASON; GIVING AWAY E-
READERS IN AFRICA; WHAT EARTH
LOOKS LIKE FROM THE ORBIT OF
SATURN; THE STRAINED
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE U.S.
AND PAKISTAN.
PLUS, SHIELDS AND BROOKS ON THE
WEEK'S NEWS.
BLACK FRIDAY SALES SEEM TO GROW,
BOTH IN LENGTH AND VOLUME, EVERY
YEAR.
THIS YEAR'S EVENTS STARTED
EARLIER THAN EVER ON
THANKSGIVING DAY IN MANY PLACES.
STILL FRIDAY'S CROWDS WERE LARGE
WITH REPORTS OF ORDERLY CALM IN
SOME CITIES LIKE WASHINGTON,
D.C. NEAR BEDLAM IN OTHERS.
>> WHOO!
YEAH!
>> Sreenivasan: LINES OF EAGER
SHOPPERS STRETCHED AROUND STORES
NATIONWIDE AS THE HUNT FOR BLACK
FRIDAY DISCOUNTS WENT INTO
OVERDRIVE.
>> THAT 40-INCH T.V.
THAT'S COSTING ME $200 ONLY.
>> THIS IS PERFECT.
IT HAS 100 PIECES FOR 10 BUCKS.
YOU CAN'T BEAT THAT.
>> $10 WAFFLE IRON, DUTCH OVEN
FOR 40 BUCKS.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT THIS YEAR,
THE TRADITIONAL KICK OFF TO THE
HOLIDAYAS A
MERCHANTS.
MORE THAN TWO DOZEN NATIONAL
RETAILERS, LIKE BEST BUY AND
TARGET, OPENED DOORS YESTERDAY,
ON THANKSGIVING, OFFERING
CUSTOMERS A HEADSTART ON THE
BINGE BUYING.
K-MART WAS ONE OF THE EARLIEST,
OPENING AT 6:00 A.M. THURSDAY.
>> I'M IN!
>> Sreenivasan: AND AT MACY'S
FLAGSHIP STORE IN NEW YORK CITY,
MORE 15,000 PEOPLE WAITED IN
LINE FOR ITS 8:00 P.M. OPENING
LAST NIGHT-- THE FIRST
THANKSGIVING DAY HOURS EVER IN
THE CHAIN'S 155-YEAR HISTORY.
>> I WAS HERE AT 8:00 P.M. LAST
NIGHT WHEN WE OPENED OUR DOORS.
WE HAD 15,000 PEOPLE LINED UP
OUTSIDE AROUND THIS BUILDING.
I'VE NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT
AND I'VE BEEN AT EVERY SINGLE
ONE OF OUR OPENINGS SINCE MYBEG.
>> Sreenivasan: MANY RETAILERS
SAID IT WAS A RESPONSE TO
DEMAND:
>> WE'VE HAD A LOT OF FEEDBACK
FROM OUR CUSTOMERS AND THEY WANT
US TO BE OPEN AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
>> THIS IS ABOUT SERVING OUR
CUSTOMERS AT A TIME THEY'VE
ASKED US TO SERVE THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT THE EARLY
OPENINGS MET WITH RESISTANCE
FROM WORKERS, LABOR RIGHTS
GROUPS AND EVEN SHOPPERS
THEMSELVES, WHO SAID THE EARLY
START TIMES RUINED THE HOLIDAY.
>> I THINK IT'S HORRIBLE.
THANKSGIVING'S A DAY TO SPEND
WITH YOUR FAMILY.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME FRANCHISE
OWNERS, LIKE HOLLY CASSIANIO,
WHO OWNS A SEARS IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE, REFUSED TO OPEN
EARLY.
>> WE'RE NOT GOING TO ALLOW
CORPORATE RETAILERS TO RULE OVER
OUR FAMILY VALUES.
>> Sreenivasan: IN LOCATIONS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY, WORKERS
PROTESTED AGAINST THE EXPANDED
HOLIDAY HOURS.
WALMART WAS A PARTICULAR TARGET.
SOME EMPLOYEES OF AMERICA'S
LARGEST CIVILIAN EMPLOYER
PICKETED, CALLING FOR HIGHER
WAGES IN SECAUCUS, NEW JERSEY
AND ELSEWHERE.
AND OUTSIDE AN ONTARIO
CALIFORNIA WALMART, A MAN
DRESSED AS SANTA CLAUS WAS
ARRESTED AS PART OF THE PROTEST.
MEANWHILE, RETAIL EXPERTS
QUESTION WHETHER THE EARLY
OPENINGS ACTUALLY LEAD TO
INCREASED BLACK FRIDAY SPENDING.
SALES FOR THE LAST TWO MONTHS OF
THE YEAR ARE UP, COMPARED TO A
YEAR AGO  BUT STILL SHY OF
HOLIDAY SHOPPING SURGES SEEN
PRIOR TO THE RECESSION.
THE NATIONAL RETAIL ASSOCIATION
EXPECTS SALES TO JUMP 4% TO A
FIGURE ABOVE $602 BILLION.
STILL, THIS YEAR'S BUYING
EXTRAVAGANZA DID NOT PASS
WITHOUT INCIDENT, FRENZIED
SHOPPING LED TO FISTFIGHTS
SCUFFLES BROKE OUT INSIDE
ST
NORTH CAROLINA TO TEXAS.
>> THERE WAS A BIG BRAWL AND I
GUESS THEY GOT KICKED OUT.
THEY DIDIDN'T GET THEIR T.V.s
ANYWAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND POLICE
RESPONDING TO ALLEGED
SHOPLIFTING AT A CHICAGO AREA
STORE SHOT A DRIVER SEEN
DRAGGING A FELLOW OFFICER WITH
HIS CAR.
BOTH WERE TAKEN TO A HOSPITAL
WITH NON-LIFE-THREATENING
INJURIES.
NOW, THE FIRST OF TWO
PERSPECTIVES ON THE BLACK FRIDAY
PHENOMENON FOR A LOOK AT THE
BUSINESS SIDE OF EVENTS.
LAURA CHAMPINE IS SENIOR
CONSUMER AND RETAIL ANALYST AT
CANACCORD GENUITY, A BANKING AND
FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANY.
I SPOKE WITH HER EARLIER TODAY.
LAURA CHAMPINE, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
SO SIX FEWER HOLIDAY SHOPPING
DAYS THIS YEAR.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THAT FOR
RETAILERS?
>> IT'S A REALLY BIG DEAL
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE IT SPOOKS
THEM.
SIX FEWER DAYS MEANS EVERYONE
DAY COUNTS SO THEY'LL BE
WATCHING THE SALES EVERY SINGLE
DAY AND ADJUSTING THEIR
PROMOTIONS BASED ON HOW THEY'RE
DOING EARLIER THAN LAST YEAR.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS THE
REASON THAT STORES LIKE
WAL-MART, K-MART, TARGET CHOSE
TO STAY OPEN YESTERDAY?
IS IT WORTH IT TO A RETAILER?
>> I THINK THAT'S PART OF THE
REASON.
IN RETAIL, A CONSUMER HAS A
BUDGET OF A CERTAIN SIZE, AND
YOU WANT TO COMPETE TO GET THAT
SOONER RATHER THAN LATER.
WE THINK IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A
DUBIOUS VICTORY FOR THESE
RETAILERS BECAUSE THEY STILL
HAVE MORE COSTS FROM STAYING
OPEN THE EXTRA HOURS BUT THE
IDEA IS TO BEAT THEIR
COMPETITOR.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THE
SOCIAL COST, PEOPLE GET A LITTLE
UPSET THAT WORKERS HAVE TO COME
IN ON A DAY THAT WAS ALMOST
GUARANTEED THEY COULD STAY HOME
WITH THEIR FAMILIES.
>> RIGHT.
IT IS REALLY THE BIG RETAILERS
THAT ARE CAUSING THIS.
T.J. MAXX WILL NOT OPENNA
THANKSGIVING BECAUSE THEY DON'T
THINK IT'S GOOD CULTURALLY.
THESE RETAILERS THAT LIVE AND
DIE PIE SINGLE-ITEM DISCOUNTS,
THEY CAN'T MAKE THAT CHOICE.
THEY'LL LOSE TRAFFIC.
>> Sreenivasan: AREA PRICES
TRULY DISCOUNTED THIS TIME OF
YEAR?
IT SEEMS RETAILERS HAVE BEEN
EDGING PRICES UP FOR MONTHS SO
IT LOOKS LIKE A DISCOUNT.
>> THEY ARE REAL DISCOUNTS.
THEY ARE PLANNED.
RETAILERS KNOW THEY'LL HAVE
THOSE LOW PRICES BUT THEY HAVE
DESIGNED SPECIFIC ITEMS OFTEN TO
SELL AT THOSE PRICES.
SO YOU'RE GETTING GOOD DEALS
NOW.
THE DEALS MAY GET BETTER CLOSER
TO CHRISTMAS.
>> Sreenivasan: CAN BOTH THE
CONSUMER AND RETAILERS END UP
WITH A GOOD DEAL WHAT ABOUT THE
ENROACHMENT OF THE ONLINE
MARKETPLACE.
I THINK T IT'S UP ALMOST 15%.
IS THIS FAIRLY STABLE?
IS THAT TREND GROWING?
>> IT'S GROWING AND IT'S GROWING
DOUBLE DIGITSES.
THE GROWTH RATES AREN'T FOUR
40%, 50%.
MOST BRICK AND MORTAR RETAILERS
HAVE TO HAVE AN ONLINE PRESENCE.
THEY'RE NOT REALLY LOSING SALES
ONLINE WITH SOME EXCEPTION.
OBVIOUSLY, ELECTRONICS, BOOKS,
MUSIC, HAVE GONE TO AMAZON.
>> Sreenivasan: LAURA
CHAMPINE, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU BET, THANK YOU.
ARE
>> Sreenivasan: AND FOR MORE ON
THE SOCIAL IMPACTS OF HOLIDAY
OPENINGS, ESPECIALLY ON STORE
EMPLOYEES, WE TURN TO STEVEN
GREENHOUSE, WHO HAS BEEN
REPORTING ON ALL THIS FOR THE
"NEW YORK TIMES."
STEVEN GREENHOUSE, WELCOME.
SO WE'VE TALKED A BIT ON THE
PROGRAM WITH HOW STORES CHOSE TO
STAY OPEN YESTERDAY.
HOW DOES THAT IMPACT THE PEOPLE
BEHIND THE COUNTER?
>> I THINK TWO THINGS ARE
HAPPENING HERE, HARI.
ONE, AS YOU KNOW, THE RETAILERS
ARE OPENING UP MORE THAN EVER
BEFORE ON THANKSGIVING, AND
THERE'S SOME PUSH-BACK FROM THE
WORKERS, FROM THE UNIONS, FROM
SOME, YOU KNOW, GROUPS LIKE
CREDO, YOU KNOW, ADVOCACY GROUPS
THAT SAY THERE'S SOMETHING WRONG
WITH THE COMMERCIALIZATION OF
THIS ALMOST SACROSANCT AMERICAN
HOLIDAY.
AND SECONDLY, AND OVERLAPPING,
THERE'S THIS EFFORT WE'RE SEEING
AT WAL-MART AND SOME OTHER
RETAILERS AND WE'RE SEEING A LOT
OF FAST FOOD RESTAURANTS AS
WELL, A LOT OF THE LOW WAGE
WORKERS WHO MAKE $7.25, $7.50,
$8 AN HOUR, ARE SAYING WE ARE
NOT MAKING ENOUGH MONEY TO LIVE
ON, TO SUPPORT OURSELVES, TO
SUPPORT OUR FAMILIES, AND WE
NEED A RAISE.
THAT'S WHY TODAY THER THERE AREE
BIG PROTESTS AT WAL-MARTS ACROSS
THE COUNTRY,.
>> Sreenivasan: BETWEEN THE
PIZZA HUT EMPLOYEE WHO GAINED A
LOT OF TRACTION ELDERLY THIS
WEEK BY PUBBING BACK AGAINST HIS
FRANCHISEE SAYING LET'S STAY
CLOSED ON THANKSGIVING.
IS THERE A LARGER PUSH HAPPENING
HERE?
>> IN WAYS THE BIGGEST PUSH
WE'VE SEEN IN YEARS, MAYBE EVEN
DECADES,  WORKERS
PROTEST, WE REALLY NEED TO RAISE
WAGES, WE'RE SEEING THESE
PROTESTS AGAINST WAL-MART AND
McDONALD'S, AND BURGER KING,
AND TACO BELL, AND PIZZA HUT.
FROM ONE PERSPECTIVE, HARI, THEY
AR.I THINK THERE'S A GENERAL
SYSTEMIC PROTEST WHERE THESE
WORKERS ARE SAYING GENERALLY,
THERE'S A WHOLE STRATUM OF WORK
IRWORKERS IN THE UNITED STATES
MAKE $12,000, $14,000 A YEAR,
AND SOMETHING HAS TO BE DONE TO
HELP US.
YES, THEY GET FOOD STAMPS.
A LOT OF THE FOOD STAMPS HAVE
BEEN CUT BACK RECENTLY.
AND THERE'S THIS INCIPIENT PUSH
TO RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE.
WE HAVE SEEN PRINCE GORGE'S
COUNTY IN MARYLAND VOTE TO RAISE
THE MINIMUM WAGE TO $7.50 AN
HOUR.
THERE'S A PUSH AMONG THE
LOI-WAGE WORKERS, PARTLY
DEMOCRATS, SAYING THE MINIMUM
WAGE IS TOO LOW, $7.50, $8 AN
HOUR IS TOO LOW AND WE HAVE TO
DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
LIKELIHOOD OF SOMETHING HANG ON
THE FEDERAL LEVEL?
>> THE WAGE IS $7.25 AN HOUR.
IN HIS STATE OF THE UNION
ADDRESS LAST JANUARY, PRESIDENT
OBAMA ENDORSED A $9 MINIMUM WAGE
BUT CONGRESSIONAL DEMOCRATS ARE
SAYING THAT'S NOT ENOUGH, AND
SENATOR TOM HARKIN OF IOWA, A
DEMOCRAT, AND CONGRESSMAN GEORGE
MILLER OF CALIFORNIA, ARE
COSPONSORING A BILL THAT WOULD
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE TO $10.10
AN HOUR IN TWO
THE WHITE HOUSE SIGNALSARILIER
THIS MONTH THEY WOULD BACK A
WAGE OF $10.10 AN HOUR.
I THINK IT PLAYS VERY WELL IN
THE PARTY'S LIBERAL RING.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT WILL HAPPEN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES?
JOHN BOEHNER SAID HE DIDN'T
THINK RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE
IS A GOOD IDEA.
HE SAID IT WILL RESULT IN FEWER
JOBS.
I HAVE A STORY IN THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" TODAY THAT SAYS THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC SUPPORTS A
HIGHER MINIMUM WAGE BY 69% TO
25%, WHEN WHICH IS A PRETTY
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY, AND THE
REPUBLICANS SUPPORT A HIGHER
WAGE.
SPHWHRAR STEVEN GREENHOUSE,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> NICE TO BE HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: IN RECENT YEARS,
TABLETS AND E-READERS HAVE
TOPPED MANY HOLIDAY SHOPPING
LISTS.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT ONE
PROGRAM AIMED AT USING THAT
TECHNOLOGY TO GET PEOPLE TO
READ.
>> Brown: MORE THAN 770
MILLION PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD
WHERE ILLIT RA, ACCORDING TO
UNESKO, WORLD READER WANTS TO
DECREASE THOSE NUMBERS AND
ERADICATE ILLITERACY FOR THE
NEXT GENERATION.
>> I WILL GO ON FRIDAY AFTER
WORK AND COME BACK ON SUNDAY.
>> Bron:w THE GROUP
DISTRIBUTES E-READERS TO
INDIVIDUALS, CLASSROOMS AND
LIBRARIES THROUGHOUT SUBSAHARAN
AFRICA WHERE 50% OF SCHOOLS HAVE
FEW OR NO BOOK
THE THREE YEAR SOLD THE PROGRAM
REACHES OVER 13,000 CHILDREN IN
NINE DIFFERENT COUNTRIES,
INCLUDING KINNIA, RWANDA,
ZIMBABWE AND GHANA WHERE THIS
STUDENT WANTS TO BE A LAWYER
WHENHE S GROWS UP.
>> Brown: ONCE THE E-READERS
ARE DISTRIBUTED, THE
ORGANIZATION CURATEAISE WIRELESS
LIBRARY OF LOCAL AND
INTERNATIONAL BOOKS.
JOINING ME NOW IS DAVID RISHER,
THE COFOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF
WORLD READER.
HE'S A FORMER EXECUTIVE WITH
MICROSOFT AND AMAZON, AND
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU, JEFF, IT'S GREAT
TO BE HERE.
>> Brown: I'VE SEEN YOU
DESCRIBE YOUR "A-HA" MOMENT THAT
LED TO THIS.
>> WE WERE TRAVELING AROUND THE
WORLD AND HAD SPENT SOME TIME IN
AN OVERNAJ IN EQUADOR.
AT THE END OF THE WAY-- IT WAS A
GIRLS' ORPHANAGE AND I ASKED THE
WOMAN WHY THERE WAS A BUILDING
WITH A BIG PADLOCK.
AND THE WOMAN SAID, "THAT'S OUR
LIBRARY."
I SAID, "WHAT'S GOING ON?"
SHE SAID THE BOOKS TAKE FOREVER
TO GET HERE.
BY THE TIME THEY GET HERE
THEY'RE OFTEN NOT BOOKS OUR KIDS
WANT TO READ ANYMORE AND THE
GIRLS HAVE SORT OF FINISHED WITH
WHAT'S IN THERE.
I SAID CAN I TAKE A LOOKED IN?
AND SHE SAID, "YOU KNOW, DAVID,
I THINK I'VE LOST THE KEY."
AND IT REALLY WAS AT THAT MOMENT
I THOUGHT TO MYSELF.
HOLD ON, I CAN STEP BACK AND
THINK OKAY I'M GOING TO SORT OF
WATCH THE WORLD NOT HAVE THE
BOOKS THEY NEED TO IMPROVE THEIR
LIVES OR STEP INTO IT AND AND
STOP THE PROBLEM.
>> Brown: YOU WERE COMING FROM
THIS WORLD YOURSELF, TECHNOLOGY
AND EBOOKS.
HOW DOES IT WORK ON THE GROUND?
>> WE GET EREADERS AND WE USE
CELL PHONES AS WELL BUT LET'S
FOCUS ON E-READERS FOR A SECOND
FROM COMPANIES LIKE AMAZON.
WE LOAD THEM UP WITH
INTERNATIONAL AND LOCAL BOOKS.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE REALIZED
EARLY ON, IT IS IMPORTANT TO
BRING BOOKS TO THE KIDS THAT
WILL INSPIRE THEM AND THEY CAN
RELATE TO.
>> Brown: AND THAT MEANS BOOKS
FROM AFRICA.
>> ONE OF THE FIRST TIMES I WENT
TO GHANA, THE WENT TO THE BACK
OF THE CLASSROOM AND SAW ONE OF
THE PAPER BOOKS THEY HAD.
IT WAS, "THE HISTORY OF UTAH."
>> Brown: BUT THAT JUST SHOWS
THE HAPHAZARD NATURE OF WHAT
REACHES THEM, RIGHT?
>> THAT'S EXACTLY IT.
IT'S ALMOST LAND FILL THAT GETS
REDISTRIBUTED INTO AFRICA.
WE SAID, HOLD ON.
THE WORLD IS FAVORING THE
ELECTRONIC DISTRIBUTION OF
BOOKS.
THE KIDS WILL READ MORE, READ
BETTER, AND IMPROVE THEIR LIVES.
>> Brown: THIS IS YOUR BASIC
EREADER?
>> THAT'S EXACTLY IT.
WE SCIED DECIDED TO USE
OFF-THE-SHELF MATERIAL.
ONE OF THE EARLIEST THINGS OUR
KID ASKED US IS CAN WE HAVE A
LIHT GSO WE CAN READ AFTER DARK.
IT WAS THAT OBSERVATION THAT
MADE US REALLY THIS REALLY CAN
WORK AND IT REALLY CAN CHANGE
THE WORLD.
>> Brown: ONE OBVIOUS ISSUE IS
COST.
IT REQUIRES-- I MEAN, TO MAKE
THIS WORK, I ASSUME YOU HAVE TO
DO IT AS LOWEST COST POSSIBLE.
>> YOU DO, YOU DO BUT THAT'S THE
NICE THING ABOUT TICKNOLOGY.
THESE WHICH COST $400 A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO NOW COST $50.
THE OTHER COST IS THE BOOKS
THEMSELVES.
BUT WE'RE LUCK THRE AND WE WITH
INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHERS.
WE HAVE GONE TO RANDOM HOUSE AND
SAID LOOK CAN YOU CONTRIBUTE THE
USE OF THE "MAGIC TREE HOUSE
"SERIES TO OUR PROGRAM FOR FREE?
AND THEY SAID YES WE DID THE
SAME THING WITH "THE HARDY
BOYS."
AND WE GO TO AFRICAN PUBLISHERS
SA& SAY WE WILL PAY YOU FOR
EVERY BOOK WE USE IN THE
PROGRAM.
IT'S A REVENUE STREAM AND A WAY
TO GET KID READING MORE WHICH,
OF COURSE, IS THEIR GOAL, TOO.
>> Brown: WHAT KIND OF
BARRIERS, IF ANY, HAVE YOU HIT
ALONG THE WAY?
>> IT'S INTERESTING THE BIGGEST
BARRIER-- WHICH THIS WILL SOUND
FUNNY-- THE DEMAND IS SO GREAT
WE HAVE TO STRUGGLE TO KEEP UP
WITH IT.
WE STARTED WITH 50 KID NAYASWE 0
READING E-READERS.
WE EXPAND OUR PROGRAM TO INCLUDE
CELL PHONES, A QIES SO MANY
PEOPLE IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD
HAVE HAD.
WE HAVE ANOTHER 150,000 KIDS
READING ON CELL ONESPH EVERY
MONTH AS WELL.
AND THIS IS OUR BIGGEST
CHALLENGE IS HOW DO WE KEEP UP
WITH THAT DEMAND AND HOW DO WE
KEEP THE FUNDING GOING TO KEEP
THE PROGRAM MOVING FORWARD.
>> Brown: AND SCALING UP MUST
BE THE BIG ISSUE FOR YOU.
>> OUR GOAL AND WE KNOW IT'S
AMBITIOUS AND CRAZY IS TO
ERADICATE ILLITERACY.
>> Brown: YOU LAUGH AS YOU SAY
THAT, BECAUSE IT'S SO BIG?
SUCH A BIG GOAL?
>> THAT'S IT.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, IT'S A
GOAL NOT NECESSARILY IN OUR
LIFETIME BUT IN OUR CHILDREN'S
LIFETIME WE CAN ACHIEVE.
YOU LOOK BACK 100 YEARS AGO AT
WHAT THE CARNEGIES AND ROCK
FELLERS DID, PUTTING IN THE
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR BOOKS FOR
EDUCATION.
NOW WE CAN DO THE SAME THING
DIGITALLY.
IT WILL TAKE SOME TIME BUT WE'LL
GET IT DONE.
>> Brown: COMING FROM THE TECH
WORLD, YOU'RE SEEING THE
POTENTIAL FOR TECHNOLOGY AS--
WELL, THIS IS REAL BIG SOCIAL
CHANGE.
>> RIGHT, THAT'S RIGHT.
AND I THINK THAT THIS SOCIAL
CHANG- CHE-ANGE HAPPENS IN
WAVES.
AND THIS TECHNOLOGY, IT'S
ACTUALLY NOT THE TECHNOLOGY
THAT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT PART.
IT'S THE WHOLE SCALE MOVE
TOWARDS DIGITAL, THE WHOLE SCALE
MOVE TOWARDS CELL PHONE
COVERAGE, THE WHOLESALE OF.
>> Brown: THAT'S BIG.
GO BACK TO THE GROUND LEVEL OR
SCHOOL LEVEL.
YOU TOLD ME ABOUT THE A-HA
MOMENT FOR YOU WITH THE IDEA.
WHEN WAS THE AH-HAH MOMENT WHEN
YOU SAW THIS COULD WORK?
>> I WOULD SAY FIRST IT WAS
WATCHING THE KID IN OUR FIRST
CLASSROOM IN GHANA WHO WERE
READING "CURIOUS GORGE" AND THEY
WERE READING IT WORD BY WORD AND
IN THE END THEY LOOKED UP AND
SAID, "CAN WE HAVE ANOTHER
BOOK."
WE DOWNLOADED ANOTHER BOOK,
ANOTHER EREADER RIGHT THEN.
YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER THESE ARE
KID WHO LIVE IN A WORLD WHERE
THERE ARE NO BOOKS.
WHERE IT COULD TAKE SIX MONTHS
OR A YEAR TO GET A HAND ON A
SINGLE BOOK AND NOW THEY'RE
WALKING AROUND WITH A LIBRARY
THAT CAN HOLD AN INFINITE NUMBER
OF BOOKS.
THAT MOMENT CHANGED WORLD FOR
ME.
FAST FORWARD AND MAYBE A YEAR,
AND I'M TALKING TO ONE OF THE
GIRLS IN OUR PROGRAM IN GHANA
WHO SAYS BECAUSE I READ "THE
SHARK "I NOWD OF NOW WANT TO BE
THE MOST FAMOUS WRITER IN THE
WORLD.
RIGHT?
OR MARY IN TANZANIA, WHO IS 10
YEARS OLD, AND SHE SAYS, "I WANT
TO BE A PILOT WHEN I GROW UP SO
I CAN FLY TO BANGLADESH, THE
UNITED STATES, AND SEND MONEY
BACK TO MY MOTHER SO SHE CAN
LEARN HOW TO SPEAK ENGLISH."
IT'S NOSE SORT OF MOMENTS THAT
WORK.
>> Brown: OKAY DAVID RISHER OF
WORLD READER, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, JEFF, IT'S GREAT
TO BE HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: WE LOOK NOW AT
UT OF THIS WORLD IMAGES.
FOR TEN YEARS, THE CASSINI
SPACECRAFT HAS CAPTURED
ARRESTING SNAPSHOTS FROM SATURN
AND THIS MONTH TOOK A PICTURE OF
EARTH FROM THE BACKSIDE OF THE
RINGED PLANET.
JUDY RECENTLY TALKED TO CAROLYN
PORCO, THE LEADER OF THE CASSINI
IMAGING TEAM AT THE SPACE
SCIENCE INSTITUTE IN BOULDER,
COLORADO.
>> Woodruff: CAROLYN PORCO,
WELCOME.
FIRST OF ALL, REFRESH US ON WHAT
THE CASSINI MISSION LAUNCHED
BACK IN 1997 WAS SUPPOSED TO
ACCOMPLISH?
WHAT WAS IT ALL ABOUT?
>> THE CASSINI MISSION WAS ALL
ABOUT A COMPREHENSIVE
INVESTIGATION OF SATURN AND
EVERYTHING?
THE SATURN SYSTEM, AND IT'S BEEN
A MISSION THAT'S BEEN DONE
JOINTLY WITH THE EUROPEANS.
AS YOU SAID, WE LAUNCHED IN
1997.
IT TOOK US SEVEN YEARS TO CROSS
THE SOLAR SYSTEM AND GET INTO
ORBIT AROUND SATURN, THE SUMMER
OF 2004.
AND WE ARE NOW IN OUR TENTH YEAR
OF INVESTIGATING THIS VERY
COMPLEX, VERY PHENOMENON
LOGICALLY RICH PLANTARE SYSTEM.
>> Woodruff: WHY WAS SATURN SO
INTERESTING AND WHY WAS THE
IMAGING PIECE SO IMPORTANT?
>> SATURN, FIRST OF ALL, IT'S
THE JEWEL OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM.
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL PLANET.
IT IS-- AS I SAID, THE MOST
PHENOM LOGICALLY RICH.
IT'S GOT THE SOLAR SYSTEM'S
LARGEST SET OF RINGS, PLANETARY
RINGS.
SATURN ITSELF IS A GIANT PLANET,
AND THERE'S MUCH TO BE GAINED BY
INVESTIGATING ITS METEOROLOGY
AND STUDYING ITS MAGNETIC FIELD.
AND THEN IT HAS A COLLECTION OF
MOONS.
RIGHT NOW I THINK WE'RE IN THE
LOW 60s FOR MOONS, AND CASSINI
WAS GOING TO INVESTIGATE THE
SYSTEM OF MOONS THAT WERE CLOSE
IN TO THE PLANET AND THEY ALSO
ARE LIKE A MINIATURE SOLAR
SYSTEM.
SO THERE WAS A GREAT DEAL TO BE
LEARNED IN GOING TO A SYSTEM
LIKE SATURNS ABOUT-- IT HAD
ENORMOUS COSMIC REACH, THE
SCIENTIFIC OBJECTIVES COULD TELL
US SOMETHING ABOUT THE EARLY
EARTH, ABOUT THE EVOLUTION OF
THE PLANETS.
SO IT JUST WAS GOING TO BE A
MISSION, JUST AN ENORMOUSLY
FRUITFUL, PRODUCTIVE, SCIENTIFIC
MISSION AND SHE THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT'S HAPPENED.
>> Woodruff: SOME OF THESE
STUNNING IMAGES THAT WE'VE BEEN
ABLE TO SEE, HOW DID YOU DECIDE
WHAT YOU WERE GOING TO TAKE A
PICTURE OF AND WHAT'S THE
IMPORTANT OF THOSE?
>> FIRST, WE ARE GUIDED BY WHAT
SCIENTIFICALLY WE NEED TO LEARN
ABOUT THE OBJECTS IN THE SATURN
SYSTEM.
THE IMAGES HAVE THE BENEFIT O D.
YOU CAN IMMEDIATELY RELATE TO
THEM, AND SO YOU GET BY A LOT OF
INTERPRETATION THAT YOU MIGHT
HAVE TO DO WITH OTHER DATA.
AND OF COURSE THEY'VE BEEN
BEAUTIFUL.
IT'S BEEN MY OBJECTIVE SINCE ATY
ONE TO MAKE THEM AS BEAUTIFUL AS
POSSIBLE, AT LEAST THE ONES WE
RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC BECAUSE I
WANTED TO GIVE PEOPLE A SENSE OF
GOING ALONG FOR THE RIDE.
THIS IS AN ENORMOUS EXPEDITION.
IT'S A SCIENTIFIC EXPEDITION
AROUND SATURN, AND I WANTED TO
GIVE PEOPLE A FEEL FOR WHAT IT'S
LIKE TO BE THERE.
AND I THINK, JUDGING FROM THE
RESPONSE, THE PUBLIC HAS HAD TO
OUR IMAGES, I THINK WE SUCCEED
AT THAT.
>> Woodruff: THE MOST
REMARKABLE IMAGE TO ME IS OF
COURSE THE ONE WHERE YOU SEE
SATURN IN THE CORNER AND YOU SEE
THE RINGS AND YOU SEE IN THE
DISTANCE THIS TINY BLUE DOT,
WHICH IS EARTH.
TELL US ABOUT THAT IMAGE AND SHE
THE MEANING OF IT.
>> WELL, THAT IMAGE HAS A LONG
AND BEAUTIFUL HISTORY, AND IT
GOES BACK ALL THE WAY TO THE
VOYAGER MISSION WHEN CARL SEGUIN
AND I AND OTHERS PLANNED AND
EXECUTED AN IMAGE TAKEN FROM
BEYOND THE ORBIT OF NEPTUNE,
LOOKING BACK AT THE EARTH, AND
IT'S BECOME KNOWN SINCE THEN AS
THE PALE BLUE DOT IMAGE, AND
THAT IMAGE, EVEN THOUGH IT'S NOT
MUCH TO LOOK AT, IN THE HANDS OF
CARL SAGAN BECAME A KIND OF
ROMANTIC ALLEGORY OF THE HUMAN
CONDITION, SHOWING THE EARTH
ALONE IN THE VASTNESS OF SPACE
AND SMALL AND TRANQUIL AND WITH
THE IMMEDIATE RECOGNITION THAT
EVERYBODY WE'VE EVER KNOWN,
EVERYONE WHO HAS EVER BEEN ALIVE
IN THE HISTORY OF OUR PLANET,
LIVED ON THAT DOT.
EVER SINCE I BEGAN MY TENURE AS
THE LEADER ON THE IMAGING TEAM
FOR THE CASSINI MISSION, I'VE
WANTED TO DO THAT PICTURE OVER
AGAIN, ONLY MAKE IT BETTER.
THE IDEA OF THE VOYAGER PALE
BLUE DOT WAS TO TAKE A PICTURE
OF THE EARTH AWASH IN A SEA OF
STARSES.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE PALE BLUE
DOT, THERE IS NO STARS.
OUR NEW CASSINI PALE BLUE DOT
IMAGE DOES HAVE STARDZ IN IT AND
IT SHOWS THE EARTH AGAINST THE
BEAUTY OF SATURN'S RINGS.
MY IDEA WAS WHEN THINKING OF
DOING THIS IMAGE OVER AGAIN,
WOULDN'T IT BE GREAT IF WE COULD
GET THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD TON
AHEAD OF TIME THAT THEIR PICTURE
WAS GOING TO BE TAKEN FROM A
BILLION MILES AWAY, AND LET THEM
KNOW AT THIS MOMENT GO OUT, LOOK
PUPUP, CONTEMPLATE YOUR EXISTEN,
CONTEMPLATE THE BEAUTY AND
LUSHNESS OF OUR OWN PLAPET,
MARVEL AT YOUR OWN EXISTENCE,
AND APPRECIATE THE MAGNITUDE OF
THE ACCOMPLISHIMENT THAT HAS
MADE THIS INTERPLANETARY PHOTO
SESSION POSSIBLE AND THAT'S
EXACTLY WHAT IT'S DONE.
>> Woodruf: fFINALLY,
QUESTIONS, NEW QUESTIONS RAISED
BY WHAT YOU SEE FROM THESE
IMAGES?
WHAT ARE THEY?
>> WELL, THIS PARTICULAR IMAGE
NAYOU'RE SEEING AND THE MOSAIC
THAT THAT PARTICULAR IMAGE COMES
FROM WAS EXPRESSLY TAKEN JUST TO
MAKE A BEAUTIFUL IMAGE.
BUT IT WENT ALONG WITH A
COLLECTION OF OTHER IMAGES THAT
ARE USED FOR SCIENTIFIC
PURPOSES.
IN THIS CASE IT'S TO UNDERSTAND
THE STRUCTURE IN SATURN'S
RIPPINGS AND TO INVESTIGATE THAT
BEAUTIFUL BLUE RING THAT YOU S
WHICH COMCOES FROM PROBABLE OUR
MOST PROFOUND DISCOVERY WITH
CASSINI, AND THAT IS 100 GEYSERS
ERUPTING FROM THE SOUTH POLE OF
THE SMALL MOON WHICH VERY LIKELY
ESSIBLE HABITABLE ZONE IN OUR
SOLAR SYSTEM.
THERE COULD BE BIOLOGICAL
PROCESSES STIRRING IN THE SATURN
SYSTEM.
AND THAT'S-- THAT HAS MADE IT
ALL WORTHWHILE.
>> Woodruff: CAROLYN PORCO,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN SEE MORE
OF JUDY'S CONVERSATION WITH
CAROLYN PORCO ON OUR WEBSITE.
IN THAT ONLINE EXTRA SHE TALKS
ABOUT T IMPHEORTANCE OF SPACE
EXPLORATION IN THIS ERA OF
BUDGET TIGHTENING.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW TO ONE OF
THE UNITED STATES' MOST
COMPLICATED PARTNERSHIPS ON THE
WORLD STAGE-- ITS ROCKY ALLIANCE
WITH PAKISTAN.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
SAT DOWN WITH HUSSAIN HAQQANI,
PAKISTAN'S FORMER AMBASSADOR TO
WASHINGTON, TO DISCUSS THAT
RELATIONSHIP.
>> THE PAKISTANI PEOPLE AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE SUFFERED
TERRIBLY FROM TERRORISM IN THE
PAST.
>> Warner: IT'S A CRITICAL
RELATIONSHIP FOR THE UNITED
STATES THESE DAYS, KEY TO
WASHINGTON'S FIGHT AGAINST
TERRORISM AND ITS PLANS TO LEAVE
AFGHANISTAN NEXT YEAR.
BUT RELATIONS WITH PAKISTAN HAVE
BEEN ROCKY EVER SINCE THAT
COUNTRY'S BIRTH IN 1947.
THEY UNITED AGAINST THE SOVIET
UNION IN AFGHANISTAN IN THE
1980s, BUT FELL OUT OVER
PAKISTAN'S SECRET DEVELOPMENT OF
A NUCLEAR WEAPON IN THE 90s.
SINCE 9/11, WHILE NOMINALLY
COOPERATING AGAINST TERRORISTS,
THEY'VE BEEN AT ODDS OVER
TALIBAN AND AL QAEDA-LINKED
FIGHTERS SHELTERING IN PAKISTANI
TERRITORY, AND OVER U.S. DRONE
STRIKES AGAINST THOSE MILITANTS.
THE LOW POINT?
THE 2011 U.S. RAID THAT KILLED
OSAMA BIN LADEN HIDING OUT IN A
CITY NEAR PAKISTAN'S CATAL.PI
HUSSAIN HAQQANI, PAKISTAN'S
AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S. FROM
2008-2011, EXAMINES THE ROOTS OF
THIS FRACTIOUS PARTNERSHIP IN A
NEW BOOK "MAGNIFICENT DELUSIONS
PAKISTAN, THE UNITED STATES, AND
AN EPIC HISTORY OF
MISUNDERSTANDING."
HUSSAIN HAQQANI, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
>> A PLEASURE BEING HERE,
MARGARET.
>> Warner: LET'S GO A LITTLE
INTO THE HISTORY BECAUSE YOUR
BOOK IS REALLY A HISTORY BOOK
AND YOU BEGIN WITH, "A DOUBTFUL
FRIEND IS WORSE THAN A CERTAIN
ENEMY.
LET A MAN BE ONE THING OR THE
OTHER AND THEN WE KNOW HOW TO
MEET HIM.
OF SO WHO IS THE DOUBTFUL FRIEND
HERE?
>> THE UNITED STATES IS THE
DOUBTFUL FRIEND FOR PAKISTAN,
AND PAKISTAN IS THE DOUBTFUL
FRIEND FOR THE UNITED STATES.
>> Warner: AND ARE THE DOUBTS
WELL ROOTED?
>> I THINK THE DOUBTS ARE VERY
WELL ROOTED.
THE REASON IS PAKISTAN'S EXPECT
FRAIGZ THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
UNITED STATES ARE VERY DIFFERENT
FROM WHAT THE UNITED STATES
WANTED.
WHAT HAS GONE WRONG OVER THE
YEARS IS THE AMERICANS HAVE
ASSUMED THAT THEY CAN BUY OVER
PAKISTAN'S LEADERS WITH PROMISES
OR DELIVERY OF AID.
PAKISTAN'S LEADERS HAVE ALWAYS
LIVED UNDER THE DELUSION THAT AT
ONE POINT OR ANOTHER THE
AMERICANS WILL COME AROUND TO
PAKISTAN'S WAY OF THINKING, AND
THAT SIMPLY HASN'T HAPPENED IN
66 YEARS.
>> Warner: THE TITLE TALKS
ABOUT THIS RELATIONSHIP BEING
P
MISUNDERSTANDINGS.
BUT THE NARRATIVE SEEMS TO PAINT
A PICTURE OF DELIBERATE
DECEPTION, ON PAKISTAN'S PART,
AT LEAST.
>> I THINK DELUSIONS LEAD TO
DECEPTION.
AND SOMETIMES YOU DECEIVE
YOURSELF.
YOU ALSO HAVE IN THE NARRATIVE
MANY OCCASIONS WHERE THERE ARE
SENIOR AMERICAN OFFICIALS
RECOGNIZING A PROBLEM AND YET
DECIDING NOT TO FACE THE
PROBLEM.
>> Warner: YOU SAY AT THE ROOT
OF THIS IS THAT PAKISTAN AND THE
U.S. DON'T SHARE ESSENTIALLY THE
SAME GOALS OR INTERESTS.
CAN'T THERE BE ALLIANCES ANYWAY
THAT COUNTRIES THAT MAY NOT
SHARE THE SAME INTERESTS BUT
STILL FIND ONE ANOTHER USEFUL
AND HAVE EACH OTHER'S BACK WHEN
THE GOING GETS TOUGH?
>> I THINK THAT A SHARED
INTEREST OR A COMMON ENEMY IS
ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL FOR AN
ALLIANCE.
NOW, YOU CAN BE USEFUL TO EACH
OTHER.
YOU TONIGHT HAVE TO HAVE 100%
SYMMETRY IN YOUR INTEREST.
BUT THE USUAL RANGE OF ASYMMETRY
AND INTEREST IS 30-70.
FOR EXAMPLE, BRITAIN HAS 30%
INTEREST THAT ARE NOT THOSE OF
THE AMERICANS.
IN THE CASE OF PAKISTAN AND THE
UNITED STATES, PAKISTAN'S
PRIMARY INTEREST WHICH IS
DEFINED BY THE ELITE-- WHICH I
QUESTION-- IS TO BECOME INDIA'S
MILITARY EQUAL AND REST CONTROL
OF KASHMIR.
THOSE TWO INTERESTS ARE NOT
AMERICA'S INTERESTS AND YET
AMERICA HAS BUILT UP PAKISTAN'S
MILITARY POTENTIAL OVER THE
YEARS AND CONTINUES TO ARM
PAKISTAN, ASSUMING PAKISTAN WILL
EVENTUALLY USE THE ARMS FOR
AGENDAS THE AMERICANS SET FOR
THEM.
THAT IS NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
THAT HAS NOT HAPPENED IN THE
LAST 66 YEARS.
>> Warner: YOU ALSO SAY THAT
YOU THINK AMERICANS AND
PAKISTANIS HAVE CERTAIN
STEREOTYPES OF EACH OTHER.
WHAT ARE THOSE STEREOTYPES?
>> THE AMERICAN STEREOTYPE OF
PAKISTANI IS WELL-SPOKEN
INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE AN
EDUCATION, COMING FROM THE
BRITISH BACKGROUND, ALWAYS EAGER
AND RAD TO DO WHAT THEY'RE TOLD.
OR REPEATEDLY LEARNING THAT THAT
IS NOT THE CASE, BUT ALWAYS
ASSUMING THAT.
IN RECENT YEARS THE STEREOTYPE
HAS CHANGED TO THE DECEPTIVE
PAKISTANI, OR THE
TERRORIST-HARBORING PAKISTANI.
THE PAKISTANI STEREOTYPE OF
AMERICANS IS THE ARROGANT
AMERICAN, THE IGNORANT AMERICAN,
AND THE AMERICAN WHO HAS NO
UNDERSTANDING OF OTHER PEOPLE'S
CULTURE OR HISTORY.
>> Warner: DO YOU THINK THIS
DYSFUNCTION THAT YOU DESCRIBE IS
ALSO ROOTEDLY IN THE NATIONAL
CHARACTERS OF EACH PEOPLE, EACH
COUNTRY?
>> AMERICANS HAVE A TENDENCY TO
NOT TAKE OTHER PEOPLE'S HISTORY
VERY SERIOUSLY.
IN AMERICA, WHEN YOU SAY,
"THAT'S HISTORY, "IT ACTUALLY
MEANS THAT'S IRRELEVANT.
PAKISTAN, ON THE OTHER HAND, HAS
SPENT A LOT OF TIME AND ENERGY
TRYING TO CREATE A NARRATIVE OF
HISTORY THAT JUSTIFIES THE
EXISTENCE PAUSE THE EXISTENCE IS
OFTEN QUESTIONED BY OTHER
NATIONS.
>> Warner: DO YOU THINK
PAKISTANIS ARE SUSPICIOUS OF THE
REST OF THE WORLD?
>> I THINK PAKISTANIS ARE PAKISE
SUSPICIOUS OF THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
I HAVE COMPLAINED THAT MY
COMPATRIOTS HAVE BECOME
XENOPHOBIC, CONSPIRACY THEORIES
ARE RAMPANT IN PAKISTAN.
THAT COMES FROM A SENSE OF
INSECURITY.
>> Warner: PRESIDENT OBAMA NOW
WITH SECRETARY KERR ATO BE
TRYING TO REVIVE THIS
RELATIONSHIP UNDER THE NEW
PRESIDENT.
WHAT ADVICE WOULD GIVE TO THEM?
>> I THINK PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
SECRETARY KERRY SHOULD CONTINUE
THEIR EFFORTS TO OF AND TRY AND
ENDPAIJ WITH STACK BAN PUT THAT
SHOULD BE BASED ON REALITY AND
NOT ILLUSIONS.
I WOULD SUGGEST THAT THEY SHOULD
NOT FOCUS BUEHRLE ON REVIVING
THE MILITARY-TO-MILITARY, AND
INTELLIGENCE-TO-INTELLIGENCE
RELATIONSHIP BUT ACTUALLY TAKE
AN INTEREST IN UNDERSTAND, WHAT
THE DISCOURSE OR DEBATE IS
WITHIN PAKISTAN ABOUT PAKISTAN'S
OWN INTERESTS.
>> Warner: DO YOU THINKUB THEY
SHOULD LOCK ON PAKISTAN AS AN
ALLY OR SOMETHING ELSE?
>> I THINK NEITHER PAKISTAN NOR
THE UNITED STATES SHOULD LOOK
UPON UPON EACH OTHER AS ALLIES.
THAT WOULD BE THE FIRST STEP
TRTD AWE REALITY-BASED
RELATIONSHIP.
BOTH SHOULD UNDERSTAND WE DO NOT
HAVE A SHARED ENEMY AND WE DO
NOT HAVE A SHARED INTEREST.
PAKISTAN NEED TO EDUCATE THEIR
CHILDREN WHO DON'T GO TO SCHOOL.
PAKISTAN NEED TO GET AWAY FROM A
RELIGION-BASED NATIONALISM TO A
NATIONALISM OF THE SHARED
INTERESTS OF THE POPULATION.
THE UNITED STATES CAN'T SEE THE
WORLD DIVIDED BETWEEN ALLYAND
ENEMIES.
THERE ARE MANY COUNTRIES THAT
ARE NEITHER, AND PAKISTAN IS ONE
OF THEM.
>> Warner: HUSSAIN HAQQANI,
AUTHOR OF "MACHTION DELUSIONS,
"THANK YOU.
>> A PLEASURE TO BE HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND TO THE
ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE YOU WERE
OUT LAST WEEKEND THERE WAS SOME
DEAL.
THE IRAN HAPPENED.
Y DIDN'T HAVE A CHANCE TO WEIGH
IN.
IS THIS A GOOD DEAL?
>> IT'S A BETTER DEAL THAN WHERE
WE WERE IN THE SENSE IT'S SIX
MONTHS, AND I THINK IT'S
CONFIDENCE BUILDING ON BOTH
SIDES, IN A PLACE WHERE THERE
WAS LITTLE TO NO CONFIDENCE ON
EITHER SIDE.
AND I THINK THE INSPECTIONS ARE
POSITIVE.
AND THE ALTERNATE IS
UNSPEAKABLE.
>> I'VE GOT AMBIVALENCE OF
MOUNTAIN-SIZE PROPORTION OF THIS
THING.
I THINK ON BALANCE IT'S PROBABLY
WORTH AN ATTEMPT.
I THINK THEY WERE HEADED TOWARDS
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
NONETHELESS, THIS IS A SHOT.
BUT IT DEPEND HOW TOUGH WE ARE
WITH FOLLOWING UP.
DO WE ACTUALLY-- AND THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS BEGUN TO DO
THIS, IN PART THROUGH A COLUMN
DAVID IGNATIUS WROTE, WHAT THEY
CONSIDER CRITERIA FOR A GOOD
FINAL DEAL.
AND IF THEY STICK TO THAT
CRITERIA, RATHER THAN FOLDING,
YOU REALLY COULD GET THERE.
THE IRANIANS ARE COUNTING ON US,
THE ENTIRE WORLD, THAT THE
SANCTIONS REGIMES WILL BEGIN TO
DISSOLVE.
SOMEHOW IF THE WESTERN ALLIANCE
CAN HOLD THE SANCTIONS TOGETHER
THIS IS A RISK WORTH TAKING.
BOTH ARE BIG IFS.
>> Sreenivasan: DO YOU THINK
THE ALLIANCE CAN HOLD IT
TOGETHER?
>> I THINK THEY CAN.
THE PRESIDENT IS, OBVIOUSLY, ALL
IN ON THIS AND I THINK ONE OF
THE PROBLEMS HE DISW FACE IS
CONGRESS IS GOING TO TRY TO PUSH
HARDER FOR SANCTIONS.
HE'S GOT TO STOP THOSE IN THE
SHORT TERM AND AT LEAST GET HIS
TRYINGTHS AND THEY'VE BEEN
TO TAMP DOWN, UNDERSTANDABLE,
CRITICISM AND OPPOSITION.
BUT I JUST THINK THAT WE--
THERE'S BEEN AN OVER REACTION ON
THE OPPOSITION SIDE.
THE IDEA OF COMPARING THIS TO
MUNICH 1938 IS BEYOND OVERBLOWN.
RAND IN 2013, AND WHATEVER IT
IS, IT'S NOT A PLEASANT PLACE,
BUT IT'S NOT NAZI GERMANY.
I THINK IT'S WORTH IT AND I'M
HOPING.
>> TO BE FAIR, THE SAUDIS ARE
REALLY UPSET, THE GULF STATE ARE
REALLY UPSET, THE PEOPLE MOST
VULNERABLE TO AN IRANIAN NUCLEAR
WEAPON ARE UNSET.
IT SEEMS UNLIKELY A REGIME THAT
WENT SO FAR TO GET A NUCLEAR
WEAPON WILL PULL BACK AND GIVE
IT UP.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS
CONGRESS DECIDE DECIDES T ADOD W
SANCTIONS?
>> I THINK THIS IS A TEST OF THE
PRESIDENT'S POLITICAL LEADERSHIP
IN THE COUNTRY AS WELL AS WITH
THE CONGRESS.
IT, OBVIOUSLY, IS TOUGHER NOW
THAT HIS NUMBERS ARE DOWN.
I THINK ONLY THE PRESIDENT CAN
LAY OUT THE STAKES AND THAT IS
THIA SIX-MONTH PERIOD.
IT COMES DOWN IT WHAT THE
ALTERNATIVE IS.
IF WE THINK IN ISOLATION THEY
WEREN'T DEVELOPING DEVELOPING,
IF THE PEOPLE WHO WERE CONVINCED
OF THAT, AND I CAN UNDERSTAND
THE SKEPTICISM.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND THEIR
OPPOSITION TO AN ATTEMPT NOW TO
FREEZE IT AND WITH TOTAL
INSPECTION EVERY DAY.
>> SANCTIONS ARE WORKING, AND IF
SANCTIONS ARE WORKING MAYBE MORE
SANCTIONS ARE GOOD.
I THINK THE CONFLUENCE OF THE
DEAL, THE OFFER FROM THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION-- WHICH IS THE
CARROT-- AND IF THEY WANT TO BE
TOUGH WHILE OBAMA IS BEING OPEN,
THAT SHIFTS GEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE POPE CAME
OUT WITH HIS FIRST APOSTOLIC
EXERITATION, HIS FIRST MAJOR
WORK INSPECT IN THER.
HE TAKES JABS ATICALITALLISM,
CALLING IT A NEW TYRANNY.
HE'S LAYING IT OUT AND POPE
WATCHERS, EXPERTS ARE SAYING
THIS IS THE AGENDA FOR HOW TO
REFORM THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH.
>> I'M A FAN OF CAPITALISM BUT I
HAVE A LOT OF SYMPATHY FOR IT.
IT IS THE JOB OF THE CATHOLIC
CHURCH TO BE A BALANCE TO THE
MATERIALISTIC DRIVES IN OUR
CULTURE AND ECONOMY.
I GUESS I WISH HE WOULD
EMPHASIZE TWO THINGS.
FIRST, CAPITALISM OVER THE LAST
25 YEARS HAS BEEN A MORAL GOOD.
HAS REDUCED POVERTY, AND THAT'S
BEEN A PHENOMENAL GOOD.
THE SECOND THING I WOULD SAY IS
SOMETIMES I THINK THE ANALYSIS
AND SOME OF THE LANGUAGE USED
THIS TIME WAS TOO GNARLY
ECONOMIC.
ONE OF THE THINGS CAPITALISM
DOES IS IT DOES ENHANCE AND
EXACERBATE PRIDE, MAKING
YOURSELF THE CENTER OF YOUR
UNIVERSE INSTEAD OF GOD'S WILL.
THAT CAN HAPPEN IN FACULTY
CLUBS, IN N.G.O.s.
THAT WAS A SPIRITUAL THINGS.
AND TO SAL-- IT SEEMS THE RIGHTY
TO FOCUS ON AN ECONOMIC THEORY
SEEMS OUT OF THE POPE'S LANE.
>> I THINK IT'S VERY MUCH IN THE
POPE'S LANE.
SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST HAS
NEVER BEEN A JUCADEO CHRISTIAN
CULTURE.
I THINK THE POPE CONFRONTED US
WITH A FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION,
"WHAT ARE WE FIRST?
ARE WE A FREE MARKET SYSTEM,
THAT WOE HAVE CONFIDENCE
UNTRAMMELLED AND UNTETTERRED, IF
WILL PROVIDE GOOD FOR MORE
PEOPLE OR ARE WE A EXWIEWNT OF
EQUAL PEOPLE, AND AN ENTERPRISE
SYSTEM UNDER REGULATION AND
REQUIRE REGULATION.
THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE HE MAKES
MORE THAN ANY TO ME IN THE
ECONOMIC SPHERE, NOT PRIVATE
CHARITY AND GENEROSITY-- WHICH
HAVE ALWAYS BEEN IMPORTANT-- BUT
WE HAVE A COLLECTIVE
RESPONSIBILITY TO MAKE SURE ALL
OF US, THROUGH OUR COLLECTIVE
INSTRUMENT OF GOVERNMENT HAVE
EDUCATION, HAVE HEALTH CARE,
HAVE SHELTER, HAVE FOOD.
THAT'S NOT JUST A MATTER OF
INDIVIDUAL KINDNESS OR
COMPASSION.
AND TO ME, THAT WAS IT.
DAVID'S RIGHT.
IT'S NOT A DEVIATION FROM JOHN
PAUL II OR BENEDICT OR PAST
POPES BUT THE EMPHASIS HE BRINGS
TO IT, THE PASSION HE BRINGS TO
IT, AS WELL AS THE SENSE OF
ENGAGING THE WORLD.
IT'S AN OPTIMISTIC, UPBEAT, AND
PASSIONATE POPE WE ARE SEEING
RIGHT NOW WHO DRIVES A FORD
FOCUS.
HE DOESN'T DRIVE AROUND IN AN
ARMORED LIMO.
THAT'S DIFFERENCE JOIRK
CAPITALISM TELLS YOU TO BE
AMBITIOUS, BE SELF-INTERESTED,
ALL OF US THAT IS NOT ENOUGH AND
THERE SHOULD BE COUNTER-CULTURES
TELLING YOU THAT IS NOT ENOUGH.
RELIGION WAS A COUNTER-CULTURE--
BUT THERE WAS A LOT OF
COUNTER-CURLTS THAT SAID BEING
SELF-INTERTED ESAND IN YOUR OWN
ACHIEVEMENT IS NOT A HAPPY LIFE.
I'M AFRAID SOMETIMES WHEN THE
POPE DOES IT THE WAY HE DID THIA
POLITICAL DIVIDE WHERE THERE
DOESN'T NEED TO BE ONE, WHERE HE
MAKES IT INTO AN ARGUMENT ABOUT
ECONOMIC PHILOSOPHY WHERE IT
COULD BE THE CORE MESSAGE OF
CATHOLICISM THAT SELF-INTEREST
SHOULD NOT BE THE CENTER OF YOUR
LIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: DOES IT
PUNCTUATE INEQUALITY?
>> THAT TO ME IS THE FUNDAMENTAL
PREMISE OF WHAT THE POPE SAID.
NOTTICISM LET'S ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY WHICH DAVE HAS TALKED
ABOUT IN THE PAST AND INCOME
INEQUALITY, AND WEALTH
INEQUALITY, BUT THAT LEAD TO AN
INEQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY.
WE'VE SEEN IT IN THIS COUNTRY
WITH A WIDENING DIVIDE WHERE
PEOPLE WHO ARE BORN POOR,
WHETHER THEY'RE WHITE OR BLACK
IN THE SOUTH, IN THE MIDWEST,
THEY HAVE A BETTER CHANCE-- A
WORSE CHANCE, ACTUALLY, OF
GROWING UP TO BE POOR ADULTS
WHETHER HEIGHT WHITEOR BLACK,
AND THIS HAS BEEN A PROBLEM,
INCOME INEQUALITY, AND ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY QUITE FRANKLY HAVE A
SOCIAL COST.
>> HIRE I LITERALLY AM BEING
MORE CATHOLIC THAN THE POPE.
SO WHAT CATHOLICISM, WHAT
CHRISTIANITYY TELLS US-- AND
JUDAISM AS WELL-- TAIL US WE'RE
ALL EQUAL SOWLDZ HOW WE ARE ALL
FUNDAMENTALLY EQUAL SOULS AND IF
YOU MAKE A ZILLION DOLLARS
YOU'RE NOT BETTER THAN ANYBODY
ELSE SPIRITUALLY.
YOU'RE STILL AN EQUAL SOUL.
IN FACT IT WILL PROBABLY BE A
LITTLE TOUGHER FOR YOU BECAUSE
OF THE SINS THAT GO ALONG WITH
THAT.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE POPE
EMPHASIZE EQUALITY OF SOULS AND
THE FACT THAT YOUR SUCCESS IS
PROBLEMATIC TO YOUR SALVATION
INSTEAD OF A MUCH MORE NARROW
POLITICAL-- WE TALK ABOUT
INEQUALITY ALL THE TIME.
I WANT THE POPE TO BE THE POPE.
>> THE POPE DID SAY, I LOVE THE
RICH AS WELL AS I LOVE THE POOR.
BUT THE RESPONSIBILITY WE HAVE--
I MEAN, THE RICH ARE GETTING BY
PRETTY DAMN WELL.
AND AS WE'VE CUT TAXES, THE
INEQUALITY HAS GROWN WIDER, SO,
YOU KNOW, I THINK THE POPE
DESERVES A LISTEN-TO.
>> A LISTEN-TO.
>> VERY CONTROVERSIAL.
>> I DO.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THERE WAS,
IN DOMESTIC POLITICAL NEWS, WE
ALMOST STARTED TO LOOK AT
CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM THROUGH
THE TREASURY.
WE ARE LOOKING AT SOCIAL WELFARE
ORGANIZATIONS VERY ACTIVE IN THE
ENTIRE POLITICAL PROCESS NOW,
501-C4s.
WHAT ARE THE STRUCTURAL CHANGES?
>> IT'S LIKE THE DAVID KOCH
ORGANIZATIONS AND TEA PARTY
ORGANIZATIONS, AND THEIR GIVING
HAS BEEN RAMPING UP-- IF YOU
TOOK TOACTS GIVING IT WAS IN THE
SINGLE MILLIONS A FEW ELECTIONS
AGO AND NOW IT'S SOMETHING LIKE
300 MILLION.
REMEMBER THE TEA PARTY THOUGHT
THEY WERE BEING TARGETED ANDT I
HAS BECOME FUZZY REGULATION.
THE ADMINISTRATION POSITION IS
WE JUST WANT TO TIGHTEN UP THE
REGULATIOW MAKE ITHARDER FOR TH%
GROUPS TO SAFE.
THE GROUP ITSELF SAYS WE'RE
MOSTLY REPUBLICAN LEADING YOU'RE
CLAMPING DOWN ON US AND NOT
UNIONS.
AND IT'S NOT FAIR.
>> FROM 1976-2008, WE HAD
ELECTIONS.
AS SOMEBODY WHO SPENT HIS EARLY
YEAR IN POLITICS BEFORE I TURNED
TO JOURNALISM, BY DEFAULT, I CAN
TELL YOU, THEY WERE CLEAN.
RONALD REAGAN THREE TIMES RAN
FOR PRESIDENT.
HE SEND THE LIMITS ON
CONTRIBUTION, THE LIMITS ON WHAT
YOU COULD SPEND AND HE RAN ON
PUBLIC FINANCING WHEN HE WON 49
STATES ONE TIME, AND 44 THE
NEXT.
GEORGE H.W. BUSH TWICE, BILL
CLINTON TWICE.
IT CHANGED IN 2008.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS THE FIRST
PRESIDENT NOT TO ABIDE BY THE
LIMITS IN THE GENERAL ELECTION
AND THEN ALONG COMES THE CITIZEN
UNITED DECISION WHICH TOOK OFF
ALL LIMITS ON SPENDING.
WE HAD IN OF IN THE LAST
ELECTION 470 MILLION CONTRIBUTE
BIDE 100 INDIVIDUALS.
AND WE DON'T KNOW THROUGH THESE
501-CONSIDER-4, WHICH LIST
THEMSELVES AS SOCIAL WELFARE
ORGANIZATIONS, CHARITABLE
ORGANIZATIONS, WE DON'T KNOW WHO
IS CONTRIBUTING.
THEY CAN HIDE BEHIND THAT.
WE HAVE GONE FROM LIMITED
EXPOSURE TO NONE.
I WISH ANYBODY ON THE SUPREME
COURT WHO VOTED THAT WAY HAD
RY WOULD KNOW, PEOPLE WHO GIVE
MONEY IN LARGE AMOUNT IN
POLITICS ARE BASICALLY NOT
ALTRUISTIC.
THEY HAVE SOME ISSUE.
THEY HAVE SOME INTEREST.
AND, YOU KNOW, IT MAYBE WORLD
PEACE.
IT MARRY PRESERVING CARRIED
INTEREST.
BUT IT'S NOT ALTRUISTIC, AND
THAT HAS CHANGED OUR DEMOCRACY.
>> I WOULD SAY MAYBE THIS IS ONE
OF THE ISSUES WHERE MODERATION
IS NOT ANSWER AND THE MIDDLE WAY
IS THE WORST POSSIBLE WAY.
I THINK THERE ARE TWO BASIC
APPROACHES, ONE IS COMPLETE
OPENNESS, EVERYBODY KNOWS
EVERYTHING WITH NO LIMITS.
BUT THE OTHER IS HAVE A NATIONAL
PUBLIC SYSTEM.
WE HAVE A I HAD WRID, WHICH IS
THE WORST OF BOTH WORLD.
TO THE EXTENT IT'S GOING TO
CRACK DOWN SOME OF THESE
CHARITABLE GRIEWRNGZ THEY'RE
VERY POLARIZING AND TEND TO
DRIVE CANDIDATES TO EXTREMES.
IT'S PROBABLY A GOOD THING.
IT'S TOUGH TO DO IT FROM
TREASURY-- IT LOOKS A LITTLE
POLITICAL.
>> DAVID'S POINT ABOUT THEIR
GIVING, AND THE LIMITATIONS AS
TO WHAT PEOPLE CAN GIVE.
THE REALITY IS THIS, HARI, THAT
WHEN THERE ARE NO LIMITS,
CANDIDATES THEN JUST SEEK A
WEALTHY INDIVIDUAL.
I MEAN, THAT'S ALL YOU YOU ARE
PLEASING.
AND THAT-- THERE WAS A TIME WHEN
POLITICAL SUPPORT WAS REFLECTED
IN FINANCIAL SUPPORT.
IF YOU WON NEW HAMPSHIRE OR YOU
DID WELL IN THE IOWA CAUCUSES.
NOW ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS COURT
TWO OR THREE MAJOR BENEFACTORS
AND THEY WILL KEEP YOU ALIVE,
EVEN ON A SINGLE ISSUE THEY CARE
ABOUT.
>> LAST PRESSING QUESTION BA
MINUTE LEFT WHAT, ARE YOU
THANKFUL FOR?
>> I'M THANKFUL-- AND PEGGY
NOONAN OF THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" REMINDED ME TODAY, THAT
CERTAIN EMPLOYERS LIKE
NORDSTROM, AND COSKICO, AND
OTHERS LET THEIR EMPLOYEES HAVE
THANKSGIVING AND DIDN'T OPEN
THEIR STORES ON THURSDAY.
>> I'M THANKFUL WE LIVE IN A
COMMERCIAL CULTURE SO I HAVE
THINGS TO DO.
I MADE MORE PERSONAL FRIEND THIS
YEAR SINCE I HAVE BEEN IN HOOL.
>> Sreenivasan: INCLUDING MARK
SHIELDS.
YOU CAN HEAR MARK SHIELDS AND
DAVID BROOKS WEIGH IN ON COLLEGE
FOOTBALL'S BIGGEST DAY.
THAT WILL BE POSTED ONLINE.
>> Sreenivasan: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
A SHOPPING FRENZY DESCENDED
ACROSS THE COUNTRY, AS POST-
THANKSGIVING SHOPPERS LINED UP
FOR HOLIDAY SAVINGS.
IN SOME PLACES, THE MAD DASH FOR
DEALS TURNED VIOLENT, WITH
SEVERAL SHOOTINGS AND FIGHTS
BREAKING OUT.
AND CHINA MOVED FOR THE FIRST
TIME TO ENFORCE ITS NEWLY
DECLARED AIR DEFENSE ZONE,
SCRAMBLING TWO OF ITS FIGHTER
JETS TO INVESTIGATE FLIGHTS BY A
DOZEN AMERICAN AND JAPANESE
SURVEILLANCE PLANES.
ONLINE AT THE "NEWSHOUR" RIGHT
NOW: NASA OFFERS AN ALTERNATIVE
TO BLACK FRIDAY-- BLACK HOLE
FRIDAY.
IF YOU WANT A RESPITE FROM THE
SHOPPING MADNESS, YOU CAN FIND
FACTS ABOUT AND IMAGES OF BLACK
HOLES ON OUR RUNDOWN.
ALSO, SUNDAY IS WORLD AIDS DAY.
WE BRING YOU A STORY FROM
TANZANIA ABOUT A DANCE USED TO
FIGHT THE TRANSMISSION OF
H.I.V., PLUS FIND LINKS TO OTHER
RECENT, IN-DEPTH REPORTS ON THE
VIRUS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM SOME
MORE OF OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: I KNOW WE ALWAYS
HAVE MORE QUESTIONS THAN
ANSWERS, AND WE BET YOU DO, TOO.
SO OUR PANELISTS WILL TACKLE THE
QUERIES YOU SENT US BY VIDEO AND
BY FACEBOOK ON HEALTH CARE, THE
ECONOMY, AND MORE.
TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON WEEK."
HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: THE NEWS DOESN'T
TAKE A BREAK ON THE WEEKEND AND
NEITHER DO WE.
I'LL BE BACK IN NEW YORK FOR THE
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" ON
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY.
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS FOR
THE TIME.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY.
WE SIT DOWN WITH THE STATE
DEPARTMENT'S WENDY SHERMAN,
THE U.S.' LEAD NEGOTIATOR FOR
UPCOMING INTERNATIONAL TALKS ON
IRAN AND SYRIA.
THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.